\input texinfo @c -*- mode: texinfo -*-
@setfilename libIDL.info
@settitle libIDL
@setchapternewpage odd

@ifinfo
@dircategory Libraries
@direntry
* libIDL: (libIDL).     Interface Definition Language parsing library.
@end direntry

Copyright 1998 Andrew T. Veliath
@end ifinfo

@titlepage
@title libIDL
@author Andrew T. Veliath

@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
Copyright @copyright{} 1998 Andrew T. Veliath
@end titlepage

@node Top, , , (dir)
@ifinfo
This file documents the Interface Definition Language (IDL) parsing
library, libIDL.

This document applies to version 0.5 of libIDL.  It is still incomplete.
@end ifinfo

@menu
* Overview::                  General overview.
* Example::                   Simple example.
* Reference::                 Data structure and function reference.

* Function Index::            Index of available functions.
@end menu

@node Overview, Example, top, top
@chapter Overview
libIDL is a small library for creating parse trees of CORBA v2.2
compliant Interface Definition Language (IDL) files, which is a
specification for defining interfaces which can be used between
different CORBA implementations.  Although the primary use of libIDL
will be for a tool such as an IDL compiler, future uses may include use
in an interface repository or interface browsing tool.  Since libIDL
uses the Unix yacc and lex tools, the resulting library is not reentrant
and is not thread-safe.  However, the yacc and lex functions are hidden
so that it does not conflict with other yacc parsers or lex scanners.

By calling IDL_parse_filename, libIDL performs compilation phases from
lexical analysis to nearly full semantic analysis and some optimization,
and will attempt to generate meaningful errors and warnings for invalid
or deprecated features, which can be redirected using callbacks.  libIDL
supports some extensions to standard IDL, including declarations spec
tags which can assign attributions to certain IDL constructs.

@node Example, Reference, Overview, top
@chapter Usage
The following C program using libIDL will parse an IDL file and print
the Repository IDs of the interfaces in the IDL module.

@example
#include <assert.h>
#include <stdio.h>
#include <stdlib.h>
#include <glib.h>
#include <libIDL/IDL.h>

gboolean
print_repo_id (IDL_tree p, IDL_tree parent, gpointer user_data)
@{
	char *repo_id = NULL;

	assert (p != NULL);

	if (IDL_NODE_TYPE (p) == IDLN_INTERFACE)
		repo_id = IDL_IDENT_REPO_ID (IDL_INTERFACE (p).ident);

	if (repo_id)
		printf ("%s\n", repo_id);

	return TRUE;
@}

int 
main (int argc, char *argv[])
@{
	IDL_tree tree;
	IDL_ns ns;
	char *fn;
	int rv;

	if (argc < 2) @{
		fprintf (stderr, "usage: %s <file>\n", argv[0]);
		exit (1);
	@}
	fn = argv[1];

	rv = IDL_parse_filename (fn, NULL, NULL, &tree, &ns, 0, IDL_WARNING1);

	if (rv == IDL_ERROR || rv < 0) @{
		if (rv < 0)
			perror (fn);
		exit (1);
	@}
	IDL_tree_walk_in_order (tree, print_repo_id, NULL);
	IDL_ns_free (ns);
	IDL_tree_free (tree);

	return 0;
@}
@end example

@node Reference, Function Index, Example, top
@chapter Reference

@menu
* Data Types::                Constructed data types used.
* Functions::                 Functions provided.
* Extensions::                Extensions provided to standard IDL.
* Tree Structure::            The C IDL tree representation.
@end menu

@node Data Types, Functions, , Reference
@chapter Data Types

@itemize @bullet
@item
IDL_tree

A semi-opaque tree which encapsulates an IDL tree node.  Must be freed
with IDL_tree_free (@xref{Functions}).

@item
IDL_ns

A semi-opaque structure which encapsulates the IDL module namespace.
Must be freed with IDL_ns_free (@xref{Functions}).

@item
IDL_msg_callback

Defined as typedef int (*IDL_msg_callback)(int LEVEL, int NUM, int LINE,
const char *NAME, const char *ERR).  A function of this type can be
optionally passed to IDL_parse_filename to be called when a parse
warning or error occurs.

@item
IDL_tree_func

Defined as typedef gboolean (*IDL_tree_func)(IDL_tree TREE, IDL_tree
TREE_PARENT, gpointer DATA).  A function of this type is passed to
IDL_tree_walk_in_order to traverse the tree.  TREE_PARENT is passed,
since it may not be the same as IDL_NODE_UP (TREE), especially in the
case of scoped idents.

@end itemize

@node Functions, Extensions, Data Types, Reference
@chapter Functions

@itemize @bullet
@item
Function: int IDL_parse_filename (const char *NAME, const char *CPP_ARGS,
IDL_msg_callback CALLBACK, IDL_tree *TREE, IDL_ns *NS, unsigned long FLAGS,
int MAX_MESSAGE_LEVEL)
@findex IDL_parse_filename

Parse an file containing an IDL definition into a parse tree.  Returns
IDL_SUCCESS if successful, or IDL_ERROR if there was a parse error.  If
-1 is returned, errno will be set accordingly.

@itemize @minus
@item
NAME: required, specifies the filename to be parsed.

@item
CPP_ARGS: optional, if non-NULL, specifies extra arguments to pass to
the C preprocessor.  The most common type of string would be in the form
of -I<dir> to include additional directories for file inclusion search,
or defines in the form of -D<define>=<value>.

@item
CALLBACK: optional, if non-NULL, this function will be called when a
warning or error is generated (@xref{Data Types}).  If not given,
warnings and errors will be sent to stderr.  All errors and warning,
including callbacks, are subject to MAX_MESSAGE_LEVEL as described
below.

@item
TREE: optional, if non-NULL, points to an IDL_tree * to return the
generated tree which must be freed with IDL_tree_free.  If NULL, the
tree is freed and not returned.

@item
NS: optional, if non-NULL, points to an IDL_ns * to return the namespace
tree which must be freed with IDL_ns_free.  If NULL, the tree is freed
and not returned.  If TREE is NULL, then NS must also be NULL, since the
namespace is created as the AST is generated.

@item
FLAGS: optional, specifies extra flags for parsing or 0.  Here are the
possible flags:

@itemize @minus
@item
IDLF_NO_EVAL_CONST: instructs the parser not to evaluate constant expressions.

@item
IDLF_COMBINE_REOPENED_MODULES: instructs the parser to combine modules
defined later in the IDL code in the first module node in the tree.

@item
IDLF_PREFIX_FILENAME: instructs the parser to prefix the filename to the
namespace.

@end itemize

@item
MAX_MESSAGE_LEVEL:

This specifies the maximum message level to display.  Possible values
are -1 for no messages, IDL_ERROR for errors only, or IDL_WARNING1,
IDL_WARNING2 and IDL_WARNING3.  A typical value is IDL_WARNING1, which
will limit verbosity.  IDL_WARNINGMAX is defined as the value in which
all messages will be displayed.

@end itemize

@item
Function: void IDL_tree_walk_in_order (IDL_tree ROOT, IDL_tree_func
FUNC, gpointer DATA)
@findex IDL_tree_walk_in_order

Walks an IDL_tree, calling FUNC for every node.  If the FUNC returns
TRUE for a particular node, that particular node will also be traversed,
if FALSE is returned, that particular node will be skipped, in the
assumption that the function has taken care of it.

@itemize @minus
@item
ROOT: required, specifies the IDL_tree to traverse.

@item
FUNC: required, specifies the callback function (@xref{Data Types}).

@item
DATA: optional, specifies the callback data.

@end itemize

@item
Function: void IDL_tree_free (IDL_tree TREE)
@findex IDL_tree_free

Frees the memory associated with TREE.

@item
Function: void IDL_ns_free (IDL_ns NS)
@findex IDL_ns_free

Frees the memory associated with NS.

@end itemize

@node Extensions, Tree Structure, Functions, Reference
@chapter Extensions
This page documents extensions to standard IDL which libIDL will
understand.  To maintain portability, it is recommended that these
extensions are only used with some sort of C preprocessor define so they
can be conditionally omitted.

@itemize @bullet
@item
__declspec (<spec>)

This token assigns special attributions to particular IDL constructs.

@itemize @minus
@item
inhibit

If __declspec (inhibit) is placed before a module or interface keyword,
that module or interface definition will be removed from the tree.  The
tree is only deleted when the IDL_ns component is freed, so it can be
traversed from the namespace component for extended information, but
will be omitted from the primary tree.

@end itemize

@end itemize

@node Tree Structure, , Extensions, Reference
@chapter Tree Structure

@node Function Index, , Reference, top
@chapter Function Index
@printindex fn

@contents
@bye
